You and I did meet, we
met when we were children.
That means that all this
time, you've known it was me.
I don't get it.
Why didn't you say anything?
[Kotomi] The first time you came
to visit me in the library...
I was so happy.
I didn't know what to say.
I thought, after
all these years,
you had finally come back...
that you finally remembered.
But then, I realized that
you didn't know who I was.
You weren't the same
boy I knew from before.
But despite that... you became
friends with me all over again.
Even though we had just met...
even though you thought
we were strangers,
you still took care of me.
At that point, I didn't
know what to think.
I didn't know if I wanted
you to remember...
or if I wanted you to forget.
[Kotomi] Those who seek out the
truth must not be arrogant.
They must not think
only of themselves.
They should never
laugh at miracles
just because they cannot
be proven scientifically.
They must never hide their eyes
from the beauty of this world.
Those were my father's words.
I'll never forget them.
Daddy, why did you and
mommy name me Kotomi?
Take a look around, Kotomi.
[Kid Kotomi] Hm?
[Mr. Ichinose] Even though you
can't see them with your eyes,
this world that we
live in is composed of
countless little harps.
Harps are also called
"koto", you know.
Like the "koto" in my name?
Do you know what is so
amazing about those harps?
Even though there are enough of
them to fill the entire world,
each one has it's
own unique sound.
And when all of those
different sounds come together,
it creates a single,
perfect melody.
And that's why this world
is such a beautiful place.
[Mrs. Ichinose] Your father
always gets carried away
once he starts talking
about things like that.
The truth is, the most
important things in life
are always very simple.
Kotomi is Kotomi, written in
three beautiful hiragana
characters.
[Kiss sound] Mwah!
[Kotomi giggles]
[Mrs. Ichinose] We love
you more than anything
else in the world.
You're our little treasure.
[Mrs. Ichinose chuckles]
[Kotomi] Our house, our garden
full of beautiful flowers,
my loving Father and Mother...
That was everything to me...
my entire world.
I've never seen you before.
What are you doing in my yard?
I was playing around here,
and just wandered in.
Anyway, what's your name?
Kotomi. Written in three
hiragana characters.
But, you can call
me Kotomi-chan.
[Mrs. Ichinose] Oh, who's your
cute little friend, Kotomi?
[Kotomi] Back then, I felt so
alone when I went to school.
I was always reading books
that none of the other
children read.
And I was always thinking
things that none of the
other children thought.
You weren't like the other
kids. I couldn't put my
finger on it, but something
about you was different.
[Mr. Ichinose] A stuffed animal?
[Kid Kotomi] Mmhmm!
I want a big, fluffy
teddy bear for my birthday.
[Mr. Ichinose] A teddy bear,
huh? Well, don't worry,
I'll find you the biggest,
fluffiest teddy in the
whole world.
[Kotomi] The truth is,
I didn't care what I got
for my birthday.
I remembered reading in
a book somewhere that most
girls ask their parents
for stuffed animals,
so to make things easier,
I just pretended like
I wanted one too.
But then...
What? A business trip?
[Mr. Ichinose] It came
up at the last-minute.
I'm sorry, but
it's very important,
so I'm afraid Mommy and
Daddy both have to go.
But you promised! You said all
of us were gonna have a big
party together for
my birthday, remember?
Tomoya said he was
gonna come too.
He said he was gonna bring all
his friends and everything.
[Mrs. Ichinose] It's all right,
Kotomi. I made you a nice
birthday dinner.
Even if we aren't here,
you can eat it with Tomoya
and his friends, okay?
Mommy and Daddy are a bunch
of liars! I hate you!
[Mr. Ichinose] Kotomi...
[Mrs. Ichinose] Oh, I know!
We'll get you a teddy bear
while we're on our trip.
The biggest teddy
bear we can find.
We'll mail it back to you.
I don't want a bear!
I hate you, you hear me?!
I hate you!
I HATE YOU!
[Kotomi] In the end, no
one showed up at my party.
The housekeeper suddenly got
sick, and I was left all alone.
And even though I
waited all day...
you never showed up
with your friends.
[Doorbell rings]
Huh?
Excuse me, but,
may I come inside?
I'm sorry, but,
my parents said not to
let strangers in the house.
You mean no one has come
here to tell you about what
happened to your parents?
[Kotomi] I stood there
speechless as he
explained it all.
It turned out that the plane my
parents were on had broken down.
They crashed into the ocean
in some faraway land.
The man said they were
carrying a very important
thesis with them.
He was there was to see if
Father had another copy
of it in his study.
Since it was so important,
he said, since it would have
an impact on the entire world,
he said, it must be
found, at any cost.
[Kid Kotomi whining
and whimpering]
Go away! Go away!
[Kotomi] He must be
a bad man, I thought.
He's trying to take away
something important,
something that
belongs to father.
I couldn't let him do it.
[Kid Kotomi] I promise I'll be
a good girl from now on.
I'll never say anything
selfish! I'll study hard...
I'll read lots of books...
I'll grow up to be a
good person, I promise!
So please, God,
I'm begging you.
I'll do anything.
Please God...
don't leave me alone!
[Reporter] They were on their
way to the United States to
deliver a special lecture
at an international academic
conference when the
accident occurred.
A search is currently underway,
but based on the circumstances
surrounding the crash,
it seems unlikely that any
survivors will be found.
[Telephone rings]
[Kid Kotomi] Mommy,
Daddy, where are you?
[Telephone ringing still]
Please come back!
I'll be a good girl, I promise!
I promise I'll be a good girl...
[Kid Kotomi crying]
So please come back...
[Kotomi] Finally, I went
into Father's study.
I was a bit nervous, really.
Normally, I wasn't
allowed there,
but it was the only
place left to go.
When I saw that envelope
on my father's desk,
I knew it must be the
thesis that the bad
man wanted so much.
This little envelope was the
reason that my Mother and
Father were gone.
It was the reason I was so
unhappy. It didn't seem right.
Why was something so
small so important?
It was selfish,
but I didn't care about
anyone else in the world.
All I wanted... was to have my
mother and father back.
[Tomoya] But why
would you do that?
[Kotomi] I don't know.
Are all articles
about the accident?
In the beginning, I thought
if I collected them all,
it would help me
atone for my sin.
In the place of the
thesis I burnt,
I cut out every newspaper
article about Mother and Father
I could find,
and put them up here.
But after a while, that didn't
feel like nearly enough anymore.
So, whenever I saw Mother
and Father's name in a book,
I cut it out, and I saved it,
just like the other articles.
Since then, I've studied as hard
as I can, everyday without rest.
Because... if I did that,
I thought I could follow in
Mother and Father's footsteps.
I didn't appreciate it at the
time, but Mother and Father
always used the most beautiful
words to express how the
earth was formed.
Now that I've grown up, I think
that's something that everyone
in the world should know.
It's a feeling that no
one else can create...
And that includes me.
Still... I feel that if
I don't at least try...
that God will never forgive me
for burning my parent's thesis
all those years ago.
[Tomoya] Kotomi...
[Kotomi] I never want to have
[Kotomi] my heart broken
like that ever again.
I can't stand to lose
another loved one.
I need to be alone right now.
[3-A Teacher] I see,
so she told you everything.
Yes, ma'am. But have you
heard from Kotomi today?
She said she might not be
coming to class for a while.
[3-A Teacher] Let me ask you,
did you know that there's
talk of Ichinose going
abroad to study?
[Tomoya] Studying abroad?
[3-A teacher] She might
be entering a program
where students with good grades
can continue their studies
in American colleges.
They may or may not decide
to come back to Japan.
Ichinose didn't become
interested in the
program until recently.
But when I spoke to her
on the phone this morning,
she told me that she'd
like to go ahead with it.
So you mean even though
you haven't seen each
other in years, Kotomi still
remembered who you were?
That's right. Although
I feel a bit guilty,
since my memory hasn't held
up quite as well as hers.
Anyway, I think I'm gonna try
visiting her house again.
If you don't mind,
I'd like to go with you too.
You should probably
go to class instead.
After all, someone
needs to tell Kyou and
Fujibayashi what's going on.
Well, I suppose so...
Kotomi...
[Nagisa] Okazaki!
[Tomoya sighs]
Come on, didn't I tell
you to go to class?
The third period was
changed to study hall.
I have to say, I was
getting worried about you.
Are you taking care of her yard?
Kinda. It's not too much, but I
wanna do whatever I can to help.
When I talked to
Kyou and Ryou earlier,
they said the exact same thing.
They wanna do whatever they
can to help cheer Kotomi up.
Oh, yeah? And what are
they planning to do?
Sorry. It's a secret.
[Tomoya] Give me a hint.
It's someones birthday.
Oh, I get it now.
I guess maybe the hint was
a little too obvious.
Kotomi's birthday is this
upcoming Saturday, right?
Right, but today's only Tuesday,
so we still have four days.
Then pass this message onto
the others, "Let's all do
our best for Kotomi."
Okay!
But still, even if they all
try their best, I think you're
the only one in the world
who can get Kotomi to
come back to school.
Let's not exaggerate.
I'm not exaggerating at all!
[Tomoya] At this rate,
I'll never get done.
Looks like I might need
to buy some new tools too.
Well, there's always
tomorrow, right?
[Tomoya] Goodnight, Kotomi.
Kotomi...
You must be home, right?
[Tomoya gives a surprised
grunt as he trips]
[Tomoya chuckles]
[Tomoya] I see. So this used
to be a flower bed, huh?
It starting to look
a little better now,
but I need to pick up the
pace if I wanna finish this.
Gotta do something
about that thing too.
[Tomoya] Looks like I'm gonna
have to buy those gardening
tools after all.
This is a lot more work
than I thought it would be.
[Nagisa] Okazaki?
[Tomoya] Huh?
[Tomoya] Hey.
So what are you doing
loitering around here, Tomoya?
Just a little shopping.
Well, aren't you Mister
Moneybags then?
I've been saving up some money
from my part-time job,
so I can get a place
of my own some day.
So anyway, what are
you girls up to?
[Ryou and Nagisa
shout in surprise]
You jerk!
[Kyou] This was Kotomi's
birthday present.
Or at least it was.
We got in touch with the
student who donated the
violin to school.
After we explained
the situation to her,
she said we could have it.
We asked Nishina for advice
on how to fix it up,
and she said we should take it
to a music store to have it
someone tune it for us.
We were on our way there just
now when the accident happened.
And just for the record, that
jerk on the motocycle is a
hundred percent at fault here.
I'm telling you! If I'd had
a metal pipe right about now,
I'd give him and his bike a
beating they wouldn't forget!
[Kyou growls]
[Nagisa] It was our fault too.
If we were more careful,
this wouldn't have
happened in the first place.
For the last time, I'm telling
you, it's not your fault.
No more putting yourselves down.
I agree. Anyway, staying
here won't do us any good.
Let's try going to
the music store.
[Clerk] I hate to say it,
but with this much damage,
it'd probably be cheaper
just to buy a new one.
Now hold on a sec!
You're taking advantage
of our situation just
so you can make a sale!
That's going too far, Kyou. He
was just being honest with us.
Sorry, Sis, but I
think he's right.
I'm sorry, this violin is
really important to us.
I know it's asking a lot,
but can you please help us?
[Clerk] Mmm...
[Ryou] We gave it our
best, but I guess it
was really hopeless after all.
[Kyou] I'm telling you
guys, he was totally
trying to take advantage of us.
[Tomoya] I dunno. With
the shape that thing's in,
it probably would be
cheaper to buy a new one.
Kotomi has to have this
violin for her birthday,
and that's final!
Let's try checking a different
music store, okay?
Just 'cause one guy said he
can't do it doesn't mean we
should give up without a fight!
[Clerk] Well, yeah, I get
what you're saying, but...
even if I could repair
your violin for you,
there's no way I could
finish the job by Saturday.
In that case, how long
would it take to finish?
Well, at this point I'm afraid
it's kind of hard to say.
It could be as little as one
month or as many as six.
No way! How does two days sound?
You know what, next time
we're gonna leave you outside.
Besides, even if I
could repair it,
there's no guarantee that it'll
sound the same as it did
before it was broken.
[Kyou] Man, this is
really frustrating.
Well, yeah, what do you expect?
In the shape that thing was in,
we were lucky the store
even accepted it.
I'm more worried about how much
the repairs are going to cost.
Well, I'm sure we'll be able
to come up with something.
If worse comes to worse,
we can hold a fundraiser.
Yeah, but your idea of
"fundraising" is more like
"blackmail", if you ask me.
[Kyou gasps, offended]
[Kyou sighs]
[Tomoya sighs]
Just a few days ago we
were all having such
a good time together.
Why does everything have
to be so complicated?
I was wondering... do you guys
think Kotomi is still at home?
[Kyou] Wow! You really
made a lot of progress.
[Ryou] I can't believe you
did all that work by yourself!
I'm really impressed, Okazaki!
What, are you kidding me?
As things are now,
I don't I'll finish
in time for Saturday.
[Kyou] Kotomi! You're here,
aren't you?
Come out and talk to us!
[Kyou] Kotomi!
[Ryou] Please, calm down.
It's probably better if
we don't try to force her.
She's right. And you're
disturbing the neighbors.
Okazaki, if you don't mind,
we'd like to help out
with the yard too.
I appreciate it, but
it's getting kinda late.
If you guys don't head home
soon, your parents are gonna
start worrying about you.
[Kyou sighs]
In that case,
guess I'm taking off.
I know you want to help,
but please try not to
push yourself too hard.
Don't worry about it.
After I organize the tools,
I'll head home too.
Goodnight, Okazaki.
See you later.
Try to get some rest.
Alrighty then, I guess I'll
put in a little more work.
[Tomoya] What am I forgetting?
What secrets do I have buried
in my childhood memories?
Is Kotomi sleeping right now?
If she is... is she
having a nightmare?
Everything that I'm
doing right now...
it may all be for nothing.
If I find out that all my
struggles have been in vain...
then what am I going to do?
If that turns out to be true...
will I be strong
enough to go on?
[Nagisa] Okazaki!
Huh?
We're back already.
Did you miss us?
[giggles]
Nagisa read you like a book.
Just like she said,
you're still here working.
[Ryou] Please let us help.
I promise we won't
get in the way.
Please, Okazaki?
Alright then, how 'bout
thirty more minutes?
[Nagisa & Ryou] Sure!
[Kyou chuckles]
[Tomoya] That's right.
There's nothing
to be afraid of.
I'm not alone anymore.
[Nagisa] Huh?
[Tomoya] Is something wrong?
I think I just saw the curtain
on the second floor move.
Come on. Just a
little bit longer.
[Girls] Right!
[Kotomi] The day before
yesterday, I saw a rabbit.
Yesterday, it was a deer.
And today, it was you.
The boy who wandered
into my yard.
I could never forget him...
even after all these years.
In the end, I don't know if he
ever understood my feelings...
but I always cared
for him very much.
He was my first and only friend.
That's why I've been
waiting or him.